\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename info68.info
@include package.texi
@include version.texi
@settitle @command{info68}: @value{DESCRIPTION}
@finalout
@c %**end of header

@dircategory @value{INFOCAT}
@direntry
* info68: (info68).             @value{DESCRIPTION}.
@end direntry

@synindex cp ky
@setchapternewpage odd

@c !BEGIN INTRO
@ifinfo
This is Edition @value{EDITION} of @cite{The @command{info68} Manual},
for @command{info68} version @value{VERSION}, last updated @value{UPDATED}.
@c !END INTRO

@c !BEGIN COPYING
@*Copyright @copyright{} 1998-2009 Benjamin Gerard

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual upon condition that the  provided the copyright notice
and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.
@c !END COPYING
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title info68
@subtitle 
@sp 1
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for @command{info68} version @value{VERSION} @value{UPDATED}
@c !BEGIN AUTHORS
@author Benjamin Gerard
@c @value{BUGREPORT}
@c !END AUTHORS
@end titlepage
@c @page

@ifinfo
@node Top, Info68 Program, (dir), (dir)
@top @command{info68}: @value{DESCRIPTION}

The @command{info68} is used to
@c !BEGIN NAME
display information on sc68 files.
@c !END NAME

@menu
* Info68 Program::              The @command{info68} Program
* Options Summary::             List of command line options
* Track-List::                  Track-list syntax
* Format string::               Format string definition
* Examples::                    More concrete way to understand
@end menu

@center manual for info68 version @value{VERSION} edited on @value{UPDATED}

@end ifinfo

@node Info68 Program, Options Summary, Top, Top
@section The @command{info68} Program

@section Description
@c !BEGIN DESCRIPTION
@command{info68} is a program to display tags contained by sc68 files.  
@c !END DESCRIPTION

@c !BEGIN SYNOPSIS
@section Synopsis
@display
@command{info68 [OPTION] [--] <URI> ([track-list] format)...}
@command{info68 --help}
@command{info68 --version}
@end display
@c !END SYNOPSIS

@node Options Summary, Track-List, Info68 Program, Top
@c !BEGIN OPTIONS
@section Options Summary
@table @samp
@item @option{--}
      Break option parsing
@item @option{--help}
@itemx @option{-h}
      Display help message and exit.
@item @option{--version}
@itemx @option{-V}
      Display build date and exit.
@item @option{--output=<output-uri>}
@itemx @option{-o <output-uri>}
      Set output. Default is stdout. 
@end table

@c @include options68.texi

@c !END OPTIONS

@node Track-List, Format string, Options Summary, Top
@c !BEGIN TRACKLIST
@section Track-list
track-list executes the next format string for all listed tracks one
after another in the given order. Track number 0 in track-list is
replaced by the last track number (equal to the number of track).

@subsection Syntax

@option{-DIGIT[[,DIGIT]|[-DIGIT]}

@subsection Examples
@table @samp
@item @option{-1,5,4-6}
will sequence tracks 1,5,4,5 and 6 in this order.
@item @option{-1-0}
will sequence all tracks in incremental order.
@end table
@c !END TRACKLIST

@node Format string, Examples, Track-List, Top
@c !BEGIN FORMAT
@section Format string
The format string is printed for all tracks listed by the track-list
command (or the default track if track-list is omit). Special %-format
commands may be inserted in the format string. These commands are
composed of a percent (%) and a code character which defines the
function of the %-command. There are 3 types of %-commands:
@menu
* Disk commands::               Print info about disk
* Track commands::              Print info about current track
* Misc commands::               Other commands
@end menu

@node Disk commands, Track commands, Format string, Format string
@subsection Disk (album) commands

The disk commands display information on the disk (album) such as
album name, number of track, total play time ...

@table @samp
@item @option{%#}
      number of tracks
@item @option{%?}
      default track
@item @option{%N}
      disk (album) name
@item @option{%A}
      default track author
@item @option{%P}
      default ripper name
@item @option{%V}
      default converter name
@item @option{%C}
      default track composer
@item @option{%T}
      disk total time in second
@item @option{%Y}
      disk total time in ``TT MM:SS'' format
@item @option{%H}
      all tracks ORed hardware flags
@end table

@node Track commands, Misc commands, Disk commands, Format string
@subsection Track commands
The track-commands print information according to the current
track. The current track is the one being processed by the track-list
command or the default track if no track-list has been specified.

@table @samp
@item @option{%$}
      track number
@item @option{%n}
      track name
@item @option{%a}
      track author
@item @option{%p}
      ripper name
@item @option{%v}
      converter name
@item @option{%r}
      replay name
@item @option{%f}
      replay frequency (in hz)
@item @option{%t}
      track  time in second
@item @option{%y}
      track time in ``TT MM:SS'' format
@item @option{%h}
      track hardware flags [YSA], uppercase ON, lowercase OFF
      Y:YM%2149 S:STE A:Amiga
@item @option{%@@}
      load address (hexadecimal)
@end table

@node Misc commands,  , Track commands, Format string
@subsection Misc commands
@table @samp
@item @option{%L}
      Display a newline character
@item @option{%%}
      Display a percent character
@end table
@c !END FORMAT

@node Examples,  , Format string, Top
@c !BEGIN EXAMPLES
@section Examples
@example
info68 \
 'rsc68://music/Jochen Hippel (Mad Max)/0/Wings Of Death/' \
 '-1,5,4-6' \
 '> %&/%# %N - %a - %n%L'

> 1/10 Wings Of Death - Jochen Hippel (Mad Max) - Level #1
> 5/10 Wings Of Death - Jochen Hippel (Mad Max) - Level #5
> 4/10 Wings Of Death - Jochen Hippel (Mad Max) - Level #4
> 5/10 Wings Of Death - Jochen Hippel (Mad Max) - Level #5
> 6/10 Wings Of Death - Jochen Hippel (Mad Max) - Level #6
@end example

@c !END EXAMPLES

@ignore
@c !BEGIN SEEALSO
The full documentation for @command{info68} is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If the @command{info} and @command{info68} programs are properly installed at your site, the command

@command{info info68}

should give you access to the complete manual.
@c !END SEEALSO
@end ignore

@page
@contents
@bye
